City Administrator
JOB SUMMARY:
Plans, directs, manages and oversees the activities and operation of the City organization including:
water, wastewater collection and treatment, gas and electric utilities, police services, finance,
streets and storm drainage, code enforcement, airport, parks including historic areas, library and
contracted services for solid waste collection.
ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS:
The fundamental duties and tasks that define the job are:
 Performs high level administrative, technical and professional work in directing and
supervising the administration of the day-to-day management of the City in accordance with
policy established by the City Council, City, state and Federal laws, regulations and
guidelines.
 Monitors and evaluates the efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery methods and
procedures; assesses and monitors workload, administrative and support systems, and
internal reporting relationships; identifies opportunities for improvement and directs the
implementation of changes.
 Represents the City and meets and confers with citizens, business entities, elected officials
and outside agencies to discuss City policies, procedures and remedy problems and resolve
inquires and complaints from both internal and external sources; and negotiates and
resolves sensitive, significant and controversial issues.
 Manages the development and implementation of City/departmental goals, objectives,
policies and priorities within City policy, appropriate service and staffing levels and allocates
resources accordingly.
 Manages the development and administration of the City budget, revenue and expenditure
forecasts of funds needed for staffing, equipment, materials and supplies; directs and
approves expenditures in accordance with City policy; and directs the preparation and
implementation of budgetary adjustments as necessary.
 Stays abreast of new trends and innovation in the field of public management and
administration.
 Advises the City Council on matters of policy and maintains weekly, and more frequent if
necessary, written communication with Council.
 Reviews and analyzes reports, legislation, court cases and related matters and directs or
personally conducts studies, research and investigation on a wide variety of administrative
and technical areas.
 Prepares and recommends long-range plans for City service programs and develops specific
proposals for action on current and future City needs. 